# Machine Learning powered Bug Detection
A comparison of different ML bug detectors on a Python dataset

Please note the following information required to operate on this project:

1) The current folder structure should not be changed if any parts of the code need to be re-run.
2) All the raw training and validation data can be found in the 'data' directory of this repository. Each folder in the 'data' directory contains a project or part of a project - the files from which will be extracted by the input pipeline. To add data to the training pipeline, a user must add a folder with a unique name in which the files to be trained on are located to the 'data' directory. 
3) The raw test data can be found in the 'test_data' directory of this repository and the same rules apply. 
4) The formatted input training data for the Scikit-learn methods that contains artificially induced bugs in lines of code wherever possible is contained in the 'demo_file_mini_projects_1.csv' file in the root directory. To be noted that this CSV file can (and will) be recreated if the entire 'project_first_complete.ipynb' Jupyter Notebook is run. 
5) The formatted input test data for the Scikit-learn methods that contains artificially induced bugs in lines of code wherever possible is contained in the 'demo_file_mini_projects_2.csv' file in the root directory. 
6) All the code necessary to run the Scikit-learn models (and a preliminary Tensorflow Neural Network) can be found in the Jupyter Notebook titled 'project_first_complete.ipynb'. The markdown and comments in the Jupyter Notebook will guide a user through using the notebook. The notebook in its current format can be run from start to finish with the need for human intervention. It must be noted that this notebook will take a very long time to run in completion as multiple models are being repeatedly created and tested against others. For this reason, some of the results in code blocks have been saved from previous runs of the notebook as often, different parts of the notebook were run when required. 
7) The formatted input training data for the actual Tensorflow methods that contains artificially induced bugs in lines of code wherever possible is contained in the 'neural_network_data/train' directory. To be noted that this directory can (and will) be recreated if the entire 'neural_network_optimization.ipynb' Jupyter Notebook is run.
8) The formatted input test data for the actual Tensorflow methods that contains artificially induced bugs in lines of code wherever possible is contained in the 'neural_network_data/test' directory. To be noted that this directory can (and will) be recreated if the entire 'neural_network_optimization.ipynb' Jupyter Notebook is run.
9) All the code necessary to run the Tensorflow Neural Network modles can be found in the Jupyter Notebook titled 'neural_network_optimization.ipynb'. The markdown and comments in the Jupyter Notebook will guide a user through using the notebook. The notebook in its current format can be run from start to finish with the need for human intervention. It must be noted that this notebook will take a very long time to run in completion as multiple models are being repeatedly created and tested against others using the Keras Autotuner. For this reason, the results in code blocks have been saved from previous runs of the notebook as well as having certain models be pre-loaded. 
10) The directories 'best_int_model_trial_1', 'best_int_model_trial_2', 'best_int_model_trial_3', and 'best_int_model_trial_4' contain the necessary assets to load previously optimized models without the need to re-fit and re-train them. 
